Besides having a fitting client, what we also need is a fitting server.
And now here's one important thing, you can use any server of your choice,
you can build your own server, write your own server side code, use any server side language you want,
it just has to be a restful service,
so Google for PHP restful service if you want to learn how to do that
for example. In this course, I don't want to dive into writing server side code here because I don't know
which code you want to use and I don't want to focus on that,
I want to focus on react native so I will use firebase,
It's a service by Google which is basically an already configured server
we can use where we then can configure it to our needs but we don't have to write or we don't have to
write much server side code for it to work as it should.
So what you should do is just visit
firebase.google.com and then click to the console on top right,
you need a Google account for that
and there you see a couple of projects.
Now I don't want to use one of the existing projects, I'll instead import a new one and pick awesome
places,
do you remember, that's the one we created for getting this Google Maps API key.
There you can then pick your location,
so where you're located and you can add firebase, if you are having trouble with this, you can always
just create a new project by clicking on this add project button you saw before.
Now in the firebase project, you got a couple of tools here on the left and we need almost none of them,
the most interesting part to us right now is the database part.
There, choose the real time database and what the real time database is,
it's a NoSQL based or like database where you can store basically javascript objects you can say, the
structure here resembles the structure of a javascript object.
Now it might look like you directly write into a database here, in the end firebase just gives us some
url so we can send requests to
and it automatically provides the right endpoint and server side code to write into some database behind
the scenes.
All we have to do is target this url or some nested url if we have a nested object here in the end
and write data to it,
this is what we're going to do.
And with that, we got all the basic set up we need for now,
so this is the url we will send a request to or part of the url to be precise. In the next
lecture,
let's now have a look at the client we use in our react native app to really get a request to that
server.